README.md, before:

# WCR Data API

[![CI](https://github.com/Lotus-Gaming-DE/wcr-api/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/Lotus-Gaming-DE/wcr-api/actions/workflows/ci.yml)

## Overview

This project provides a simple REST API to serve data from
`data/units.json` and `data/categories.json`. Application code lives under
`src/wcr_api` following the conventional `src/` layout.

See [CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md) for release notes.

## Setup

- Python 3.11
- HTTPX for the FastAPI test client (installed via `requirements.txt`)
- Copy `.env.example` to `.env` to customise configuration such as
  ``LOG_LEVEL``.

Install dependencies and start the application with `uvicorn`. For
formatting, linting and running tests install the development requirements:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
pip install -r requirements-dev.txt
PYTHONPATH=src uvicorn main:app --reload
```

Structured logging is initialised during the application's lifespan using
``structlog``. Logs are emitted in JSON format and written both to stdout and
``logs/api.log``. The log level defaults to ``INFO`` but can be changed by
setting the ``LOG_LEVEL`` environment variable (e.g. ``DEBUG``) before starting
the app. The lifespan function also loads unit data on startup so the API is
ready to serve requests immediately.

## Usage

When running locally the API is available at `http://127.0.0.1:8000`.

## Tests

Install development dependencies and run the test suite with coverage enabled.
Running tests as a module ensures the package imports correctly and collects
coverage metrics:

```bash
pip install -r requirements-dev.txt
python -m pytest --cov=. --cov-report=term-missing:skip-covered
```

## Deployment

Deployments on Railway use the following start command to ensure the
`wcr_api` package is importable:

```bash
PYTHONPATH=src uvicorn main:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port $PORT
```

### Code style

Use `pre-commit` to automatically run Black, Flake8, Ruff,
`pip-audit` and other basic checks:

```bash
pre-commit install
```

Run all hooks manually with:

```bash
pre-commit run --all-files
```

The `pip-audit` hook (version `2.9.0`) scans `requirements.txt` and
outputs a column formatted report. It installs `pip-audit[cyclonedx]`
and `cyclonedx-bom` so CI can generate a CycloneDX software bill of
materials. CI runs the same hooks and then streams Railway logs with
`railway logs --follow > logs/latest_railway.log` which is uploaded as a
build artifact.
If more logs are needed, trigger the `Railway Logs` workflow from the Actions
tab to capture production logs for the `bot` service.

### Security scanning

CI installs the Snyk CLI with `snyk/actions/setup@v1` and runs `snyk test`.
Authentication is provided via the `SNYK_TOKEN` environment variable set as a
repository secret. Pull requests from forks do not receive secrets, therefore
the Snyk step is skipped in that scenario.

### Automatic dependency updates

Dependabot checks `requirements*.txt` and workflow files as configured in
`.github/dependabot.yml`. It opens daily pull requests that trigger the full CI
pipeline with linting, tests and `pip-audit`. These updates run the same
workflow as any other pull request ensuring quality gates are met. CI caches
pip downloads and pre-commit hooks for faster runs and stores build logs under
`logs/`. Enable Dependabot alerts in repository settings to receive security
notifications.

The repository's `.gitignore` excludes environment files, Python bytecode,
pytest cache directories and the `data/` folder to avoid committing temporary
files.

### Data loading

Unit data is loaded once at startup by `DataLoader` via the application's
lifespan context manager which keeps a dictionary for fast lookups. Use
`get_unit_by_id` to retrieve a specific unit without iterating over the entire
list.

If data files cannot be read, the application now returns a 500 JSON response
with `{"detail": "Interner Serverfehler"}` instead of exposing a stack
trace. Requests for unknown unit IDs return a 404 response containing
`{"detail": "Einheit nicht gefunden"}`.

### Data files

Example JSON data for local development resides in `data/units.json` and
`data/categories.json`. The `data/` directory is gitignored so you can replace
these files without committing them. If the directory is missing or you wish to
refresh the contents, download the latest data from the live API:

```bash
curl -L https://wcr-api.up.railway.app/units > data/units.json
curl -L https://wcr-api.up.railway.app/categories > data/categories.json
```

### Hosted API

The API is also deployed and accessible under:

```
https://wcr-api.up.railway.app
```

### Available Endpoints

- `GET /units` – list units with optional `offset` and `limit` query params
  (defaults: `offset=0`, `limit=100`, maximum limit `1000`)
- `GET /units/{id}` – get a unit by ID
- `GET /categories` – list categories (factions, types, traits, speeds)

Unit IDs consist of lowercase letters, numbers and hyphens.

All endpoints return JSON.

### Examples

Fetch a subset of units:

```bash
curl "https://wcr-api.up.railway.app/units?offset=0&limit=10"
```

Fetch a single unit:

```bash
curl https://wcr-api.up.railway.app/units/ancient-of-war
```

Fetch categories:

```bash
curl https://wcr-api.up.railway.app/categories
```

#### Example usage in Python

```python
import requests

base_url = "https://wcr-api.up.railway.app"

# list units with pagination
units = requests.get(f"{base_url}/units", params={"offset": 0, "limit": 10}).json()

# single unit by id
unit = requests.get(f"{base_url}/units/ancient-of-war").json()

# categories
categories = requests.get(f"{base_url}/categories").json()
```

Commit message:

Add data fetch script and update workflows

README.md, after:

# WCR Data API

[![CI](https://github.com/Lotus-Gaming-DE/wcr-api/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/Lotus-Gaming-DE/wcr-api/actions/workflows/ci.yml)

## Overview

This project provides a simple REST API to serve data from
`data/units.json` and `data/categories.json`. Application code lives under
`src/wcr_api` following the conventional `src/` layout.

See [CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md) for release notes.

## Setup

- Python 3.11
- HTTPX for the FastAPI test client (installed via `requirements.txt`)
- Copy `.env.example` to `.env` to customise configuration such as
  ``LOG_LEVEL``.

Install dependencies and start the application with `uvicorn`. For
formatting, linting and running tests install the development requirements:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
pip install -r requirements-dev.txt
PYTHONPATH=src uvicorn main:app --reload
```

Structured logging is initialised during the application's lifespan using
``structlog``. Logs are emitted in JSON format and written both to stdout and
``logs/api.log``. The log level defaults to ``INFO`` but can be changed by
setting the ``LOG_LEVEL`` environment variable (e.g. ``DEBUG``) before starting
the app. The lifespan function also loads unit data on startup so the API is
ready to serve requests immediately.

## Usage

When running locally the API is available at `http://127.0.0.1:8000`.

## Tests

Install development dependencies and run the test suite with coverage enabled.
Running tests as a module ensures the package imports correctly and collects
coverage metrics:

```bash
pip install -r requirements-dev.txt
python -m pytest --cov=. --cov-report=term-missing:skip-covered
```

## Deployment

Deployments on Railway use the following start command to ensure the
`wcr_api` package is importable:

```bash
PYTHONPATH=src uvicorn main:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port $PORT
```

### Code style

Use `pre-commit` to automatically run Black, Flake8, Ruff,
`pip-audit` and other basic checks:

```bash
pre-commit install
```

Run all hooks manually with:

```bash
pre-commit run --all-files
```

The `pip-audit` hook (version `2.9.0`) scans `requirements.txt` and
outputs a column formatted report. It installs `pip-audit[cyclonedx]`
and `cyclonedx-bom` so CI can generate a CycloneDX software bill of
materials. CI runs the same hooks and then streams Railway logs with
`railway logs --follow > logs/latest_railway.log` which is uploaded as a
build artifact.
If more logs are needed, trigger the `Railway Logs` workflow from the Actions
tab to capture production logs for the `bot` service.

### Security scanning

CI installs the Snyk CLI via `npm install -g snyk` and runs `snyk test`.
Authentication is provided with the `SNYK_TOKEN` secret. Pull requests from
forks do not receive secrets so the Snyk step is skipped for them.

### Automatic dependency updates

Dependabot checks `requirements*.txt` and workflow files as configured in
`.github/dependabot.yml`. It opens daily pull requests for Python
dependencies and weekly ones for GitHub Actions that trigger the full CI
pipeline with linting, tests and `pip-audit`. These updates run the same
workflow as any other pull request ensuring quality gates are met. CI caches
pip downloads and pre-commit hooks for faster runs and stores build logs under
`logs/`. Enable Dependabot alerts in repository settings to receive security
notifications.

The repository's `.gitignore` excludes environment files, Python bytecode,
pytest cache directories and the `data/` folder to avoid committing temporary
files.

### Data loading

Unit data is loaded once at startup by `DataLoader` via the application's
lifespan context manager which keeps a dictionary for fast lookups. Use
`get_unit_by_id` to retrieve a specific unit without iterating over the entire
list.

If data files cannot be read, the application now returns a 500 JSON response
with `{"detail": "Interner Serverfehler"}` instead of exposing a stack
trace. Requests for unknown unit IDs return a 404 response containing
`{"detail": "Einheit nicht gefunden"}`.

### Data files

Example JSON data for local development resides in `data/units.json` and
`data/categories.json`. The `data/` directory is gitignored so you can replace
these files without committing them. If the directory is missing or you wish to
refresh the contents, download the latest data from the live API:

```bash
curl -L https://wcr-api.up.railway.app/units > data/units.json
curl -L https://wcr-api.up.railway.app/categories > data/categories.json
```

### Utility Scripts

`scripts/fetch_data.py` automates downloading these files:

```bash
python scripts/fetch_data.py --base-url https://wcr-api.up.railway.app --output-dir data
```

Run with `--help` for more options.

### Hosted API

The API is also deployed and accessible under:

```
https://wcr-api.up.railway.app
```

### Available Endpoints

- `GET /units` – list units with optional `offset` and `limit` query params
  (defaults: `offset=0`, `limit=100`, maximum limit `1000`)
- `GET /units/{id}` – get a unit by ID
- `GET /categories` – list categories (factions, types, traits, speeds)

Unit IDs consist of lowercase letters, numbers and hyphens.

All endpoints return JSON.

### Examples

Fetch a subset of units:

```bash
curl "https://wcr-api.up.railway.app/units?offset=0&limit=10"
```

Fetch a single unit:

```bash
curl https://wcr-api.up.railway.app/units/ancient-of-war
```

Fetch categories:

```bash
curl https://wcr-api.up.railway.app/categories
```

#### Example usage in Python

```python
import requests

base_url = "https://wcr-api.up.railway.app"

# list units with pagination
units = requests.get(f"{base_url}/units", params={"offset": 0, "limit": 10}).json()

# single unit by id
unit = requests.get(f"{base_url}/units/ancient-of-war").json()

# categories
categories = requests.get(f"{base_url}/categories").json()
```
